# Assembly Tutorial 1: Hello World
Welcome to your (supposed) first assembly coding tutorial.
In this tutorial, you'll be writing a hello world program.

## First and Foremost
What you need to know about Gigibox's assembly language is that it's not a complete imitation of assembly language, as it only takes the main concepts of assembly language and simplifies them. Please do not take these tutorials as actual assembly language tutorials.

# Hello World
## Creating a string
All hello world programs are the same to the core: A string gets assigned in memory and is then output to a console. This is the first part of making a hello world program.

To declare a string, there exists an instruction that does it without you painstakingly declaring every character. It's called `str` (look up this instruction in more detail <a href="https://github.com/Simonciott/Gigibox/blob/main/docs/reference/AssemblyInstructions.md#str">here</a>).
All you need to provide is the address you want the string's first byte (not character) to be stored in and the string itself
```
str $0 " Hello World! " ; creates the string to print
```
Since the instruction expects an address as its first argument, the address needs to be provided as an "absolute value" (more on how values are formatted <a href="https://github.com/Simonciott/Gigibox/blob/main/docs/reference/Assembly.md#argument-and-value-formatting">here</a>) and due to limitations, the quotes have to be separate from the string's characters.

## Printing to the console
Now the most important part of the program: Printing the string to the console.

The print function exists as an interrupt code. Interrupt codes get their arguments from registers, so we need to move our arguments to their appropriate registers. In this interrupt code's case, we only need one register, that being register A; register A needs to store the address at which we stored the string.

This can be achieved in two different ways (it is supposed the string is stored at address `0`):
- Using the MOV instruction
```
mov a $0 ; moves the value 0 to A
```
- Using the LDA instruction
```
lda $0 ; loads 0 in A
```
Either instruction is correct, but in cases like this, it's good practice to use the LDA instruction.

Now on to actually using the interrupt to print to console. The code used for this function is code `1`
```
int $1 ; prints the string stored in A
```

## Finished program
Congratulations! you just coded your first assembly program in Gigibox.

Complete code
```
str $0 " Hello World! " ; creates the string to print
lda $0 ; loads 0 in A
int $1 ; prints the string stored in A
```