# Assembly Tutorial 2: Simple Math
Welcome to the second Gigibox Assembly language tutorial.
In this tutorial, you'll be learning to use math instructions

# Simple Math
## How are math instructions processed in Gigibox?
All math instructions happen with register A (also known as the Accumulator) being treated as the first operand and as storage for the result of the operation.
All math instructions take in a single argument (with some exceptions).

## Addition
What you'll need to do if the A register's value is null (0) is load a value to it.
```
lda $2 ; stores 2 to the A register
```
And now, we add a value to A.
```
add $3 ; adds 3 to A
```

## Other math instructions
For all other operations it's basically the same thing, Using different instructions (`sub`, `mul`, `div`, `mod`).

There are two math instructions that operate differently from other ones, these being `inc` and `dec`. They increment and decrement the value of register A respectively.

## Math expressions
Let's use the expression `2 * (2 + 5 * 3) - 9` as an example.

First we declare all numbers to visualize them easier.
```
mov $0 $2 ; 2 at address 0
mov $1 $2 ; 2 at address 1
mov $2 $5 ; 5 at address 2
mov $3 $3 ; 3 at address 3
mov $4 $9 ; 9 at address 4
```

Following the PEMDAS rule, we first operate inside the brackets, more specifically on the multiplication.
```
lda 2 ; loads value at address 2
mul 3 ; multiplies by 3
```

This is a pretty simple expression, so instead of storing these new values in memory, we can just juggle them between registers.
```
mov b $a ; moves the value of a to b 
```

Now we can proceed with the other operations.
```
lda 1
add $b ; adds the result from (5 * 3) to a
mov c $a

lda 0
mul $c
mov b $a

lda 4 ; to subtract A from B, we can swap their values with the swp instruction
swp a b
sub $b
```

Now our expression has been solved and the result is stored in register B!

## Finished program
Complete code:
```
mov $0 $2 ; 2 at address 0
mov $1 $2 ; 2 at address 1
mov $2 $5 ; 5 at address 2
mov $3 $3 ; 3 at address 3
mov $4 $9 ; 9 at address 4

lda 2 ; loads value at address 2
mul 3 ; multiplies by 3
mov b $a ; moves the value of a to b 

lda 1
add $b ; adds the result from (5 * 3) to a
mov c $a

lda 0
mul $c
mov b $a

lda 4 ; to subtract A from B, we can swap their values with the swp instruction
swp a b
sub $b
```